{
    "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New-Style_NES",
    "title": "New-Style NES",
    "summary": "The New-Style NES (also known by its model number NES-101, the New NES, the top-loading model, or simply the Top Loader) is a compact cost-reduced redesigned version of the Nintendo Entertainment System released by Nintendo in 1993.\nNintendo marketed the New-Style NES model as the NES Control Deck, exactly the same as the original NES-001 model, only with a \"new design\" mark on the packaging. It retailed in North America for $49.95 USD (equivalent to $93.7 in 2021). This was at a significantly lower price than the already released Super Nintendo Entertainment System. The NES-101 control deck came packaged with a redesigned version of the standard NES controller (model number NES-039) shaped very similarly to the Super NES controller.",
    "content": "The New-Style NES (also known by its model number NES-101, the New NES, the top-loading model, or simply the Top Loader) is a compact cost-reduced redesigned version of the Nintendo Entertainment System released by Nintendo in 1993.\nNintendo marketed the New-Style NES model as the NES Control Deck, exactly the same as the original NES-001 model, only with a \"new design\" mark on the packaging. It retailed in North America for $49.95 USD (equivalent to $93.7 in 2021). This was at a significantly lower price than the already released Super Nintendo Entertainment System. The NES-101 control deck came packaged with a redesigned version of the standard NES controller (model number NES-039) shaped very similarly to the Super NES controller.\n\n\n== Hardware ==\nThe external appearance of the NES was greatly overhauled and restyled to align its looks to the North American version of the Super NES control deck and to address a number of commonly cited ergonomic problems of the original NES-001 model. The case design was by Lance Barr, who also designed the North American versions of the original NES and Super NES, as well as the later redesigned Super NES. The power and reset buttons now matched the curvature of the new look. The NES-101 does not have an LED power light to indicate the unit is on, as the original NES-001 and SNS-001 included.\nThe most obvious change in the redesign was the removal of the front-loading Zero-Insertion-Force (ZIF) mechanism of the cartridge slot in the original NES-001 model. In that system, the user had to first open the lid of the case, slide in the cartridge, then press it down. The large space inside allowed plenty of room for dust to settle and the contact heads were almost impossible to access and clean without disassembling the system or using the official cleaning kit. Wear and tear was another problem; with continued use, the precision of the mechanism deteriorated and the user would have to poke and nudge at the cartridge to move it to a position that would be read correctly. The NES-101 returned to the standard top-loading method, used by almost all cartridge systems before and since for its ease and reliability.\nThe 10NES authentication chip was completely removed from the system in an effort to eliminate the blinking red power light problem associated with it in the original NES. The removal of the 10NES chip also allows the system to play games that are unlicensed and/or from different regions such as Europe, something NES-001 systems cannot do without a hardware modification. A minor side-effect is that Nintendo World Championship will not work properly since it needs to know when the console is reset in order to go back to the menu. This signal is only provided by a working 10NES on official hardware.\nThe RCA composite video output and audio jacks were removed from the system as well; an RF connection is the only way to connect the system to a television unless one has the console modified to add composite output or uses an RF-to-RCA converter.\n\n\n=== Controller ===\n\nThe NES-101 control deck features the same 7-pin controller ports as the NES-001 and is compatible with all the same controllers and peripherals. The console came packaged with a similarly-redesigned version of the standard NES controller (model number NES-039), nicknamed the \"dogbone\" controller due to its shape, instead of the original NES-004 model controller. While the NES-101 console only came with one controller, the NES-039 controller was also sold by itself and is fully compatible with either version of the NES control deck. The NES-039 controller more closely resemble the Super NES controller, with rounded edges that fit more ergonomically in the hands than the rectangular design of the NES-004 model. The A and B buttons were also set at an angle to mimic the Super NES controller as well as provide better ergonomics. Because of its ergonomic shape, the NES-039 model controller does not fit in R.O.B.'s controller slot.\n\n\n=== Revisions ===\nThere are two known revisions of the New-Style NES; both have redesigned circuit boards that improve video output quality. The first has a Nintendo AV multi-out port (the same used in the Super NES, Nintendo 64, and GameCube) that replaces the RF jack completely. The other looks exactly the same as the rest with the RF video output jack and channel select switch, but with excellent video output quality. These versions were replacements for those who sent their original New-Style NES systems to Nintendo with a poor quality video complaint. These models are extremely rare as they mostly came as replacement units from Nintendo, but the revised AV model was also found in stores such as Meijer and Radio Shack. All PAL units, model NESP-101, were shipped with the revised motherboard and cleaner RF output, but video output used the 50 Hz PAL standard rather than the 60 Hz NTSC. The PAL versions also do not have a channel select switch. They also have some minor cosmetic differences. On NTSC top loaders, the RF out panel is made from the same light gray plastic as the top shell. On the PAL version, the RF out panel is made from the same dark gray plastic as the base shell. The PAL console also lacks an 1800 service hotline sticker.\n\n\n=== AV Famicom ===\n\nThe revised HVC-101 model of the Family Computer was also marketed as the AV Famicom (AV仕様ファミコン, Eibui Shiyō Famikon) or New Famicom (ニューファミコン, Nyū Famikon) to distinguish it from the original HVC-001 model. It was released in Japan on December 1, 1993 with a retail price for ¥6800, and remained in production until September 2003. The HVC-101 console is stylistically similar to the New-Style NES model released in North America a few months earlier, but has some slight design changes to suit the different needs of the Japanese market.\nInstead of hardwired controllers like the original Famicom, the New Famicom has the same 7-pin controller ports as the NES (in addition to having a dedicated expansion port for peripherals just like the original Famicom) and came bundled with two connectable controllers (model number HVC-102). The HVC-102 controllers are identical in design to the NES-039 controller, but have much shorter cords. In bringing NES-style control ports to the HVC-101 model made the console compatible with all NES controllers as well (although certain NES peripherals that required the second controller port, such as the Zapper and the Power Pad, will not work on the New Famicom). Because the two packaged controllers are identical in terms of functionality, they both lack the built-in microphone that the original Famicom's second controller has in place of the Start and Select buttons. \n\nThe biggest difference between the North American New-Style NES model and the Japanese HVC-101 model was the replacement of the RF modulator output with the same multi-AV output port that the Super Famicom uses. This also represented the biggest selling point the New Famicom has over the original Famicom, which only has RF output as well. Thus the New Famicom requires either, the monaural (SHVC-007) or stereo AV cables (SHVC-008) that the Super Famicom uses for output (however, the New Famicom is only capable of outputting mono audio, even when using stereo cables). The Super Famicom's S-Video (SHVC-009) and RGB (SHVC-010) cables are not compatible with the New Famicom, despite having the same connector type. Nintendo also sold an external RF modulator (HVC-103) for users who wanted to connect the New Famicom to a TV set which lacked a composite video input. Like with the Super Famicom, Nintendo did not package an AV cable or AC adapter with the New Famicom - both were sold separately. The New Famicom requires the same AC adapter (HVC-002) as the original Famicom and the Super Famicom.\nThe HVC-101 has a flat surface in contrast to the convex surface of the New-Style NES. This was done in order to make the New Famicom compatible with the Disk System add-on, which uses a RAM Adapter that plugs into the console's cartridge slot in order to interface with the main Disk System unit.\nPeripherals that work on the New Famicom (rather than on the original Famicom) were sold the Famicom Family New (or FF New) marking, but aside from the aforementioned hookup cables, the only licensed peripheral that was released with this marking was the New Hori Commander (HFC-07) controller, which was the only licensed third-party controller in Japan that has an NES-style controller plug.\n\n\n== See also ==\nNew-Style Super NES\nWii Mini\nList of Nintendo games\n\n\n== References ==\n\n\n== External links ==\n Media related to Nintendo Entertainment System (NES-101) at Wikimedia Commons",
    "links": [
        "10NES",
        "64DD",
        "Action Max",
        "Aladdin Deck Enhancer",
        "Amiibo",
        "Amstrad GX4000",
        "Analogue Nt",
        "Analogue Nt mini",
        "Atari 7800",
        "Atari Games Corp. v. Nintendo of America Inc.",
        "Atari XEGS",
        "Australasia",
        "Broadway (microprocessor)",
        "CIC (Nintendo)",
        "Central processing unit",
        "Classic Controller",
        "Color TV-Game",
        "Commodore 64 Games System",
        "Console game",
        "Console manufacturer",
        "Dedicated console",
        "Dendy (console)",
        "Eighth generation of video game consoles",
        "Espresso (microprocessor)",
        "Famiclone",
        "Famicom 3D System",
        "Famicom Data Recorder",
        "Famicom Disk System",
        "Famicom Titler",
        "Family BASIC",
        "Family Computer Disk System",
        "Family Computer Network System",
        "Fifth generation of video game consoles",
        "First generation of video game consoles",
        "Fourth generation of video game consoles",
        "GameCube",
        "GameCube accessories",
        "GameCube controller",
        "GameCube – Game Boy Advance link cable",
        "Game Axe",
        "Game Boy",
        "Game Boy Advance",
        "Game Boy Advance SP",
        "Game Boy Advance Video",
        "Game Boy Camera",
        "Game Boy Color",
        "Game Boy Micro",
        "Game Boy Player",
        "Game Boy Printer",
        "Game Boy accessories",
        "Game Genie",
        "Game Link Cable",
        "Game Pak",
        "Game Pak (NES)",
        "Game controller",
        "Gekko (microprocessor)",
        "Halcyon (console)",
        "Handheld game console",
        "History of the Nintendo Entertainment System",
        "History of video game consoles",
        "History of video game consoles (third generation)",
        "Hollywood (graphics chip)",
        "Home video game console",
        "Home video game console generations",
        "Homework First",
        "IQue Player",
        "Japan",
        "Joy-Con",
        "LED",
        "LaserScope",
        "List of Famicom Disk System games",
        "List of Famicom games",
        "List of Game & Watch games",
        "List of Nintendo DS accessories",
        "List of Nintendo Entertainment System accessories",
        "List of Nintendo Entertainment System games",
        "List of Nintendo controllers",
        "List of Nintendo games",
        "List of Nintendo products",
        "List of Super NES enhancement chips",
        "List of Super Nintendo Entertainment System accessories",
        "List of best-selling Nintendo Entertainment System video games",
        "List of dedicated video game consoles",
        "List of handheld game consoles",
        "List of home video game consoles",
        "List of microconsoles",
        "List of retro style video game consoles",
        "Lists of video game consoles",
        "Master System",
        "Meijer",
        "Micro Genius",
        "Microconsole",
        "Microphone",
        "Miracle Piano Teaching System",
        "Morita Shogi 64",
        "NES Advantage",
        "NES Classic Edition",
        "NES Four Score",
        "NES Max",
        "NES Satellite",
        "NES Zapper",
        "New-Style Super NES",
        "New-style Super NES",
        "New Nintendo 2DS XL",
        "New Nintendo 3DS",
        "Nintendo",
        "Nintendo 2DS",
        "Nintendo 3DS",
        "Nintendo 64",
        "Nintendo 64 Game Pak",
        "Nintendo 64 accessories",
        "Nintendo 64 controller",
        "Nintendo DS",
        "Nintendo DS Lite",
        "Nintendo DSi",
        "Nintendo Entertainment System",
        "Nintendo Entertainment System (Model NES-101)",
        "Nintendo Entertainment System Game Pak",
        "Nintendo Game Card",
        "Nintendo Mini Classics",
        "Nintendo Power (cartridge)",
        "Nintendo Quest",
        "Nintendo R&D2",
        "Nintendo Switch",
        "Nintendo Switch Lite",
        "Nintendo Switch Pro Controller",
        "Nintendo VS. System",
        "Nintendo Wi-Fi USB Connector",
        "Nintendo e-Reader",
        "Nintendo hard",
        "Nintendo optical discs",
        "Nintendo video game consoles",
        "Ninth generation of video game consoles",
        "North America",
        "Online console gaming",
        "PICA200",
        "PV-1000",
        "Pegasus (console)",
        "PlayChoice-10",
        "Pokémon Mini",
        "Pokémon Pikachu",
        "Power Glove",
        "Power Pad",
        "R.O.B.",
        "RCA jack",
        "Radio Shack",
        "Retrogaming",
        "Ricoh 2A03",
        "Ricoh 5A22",
        "Rumble Pak",
        "SG-1000",
        "Satellaview",
        "Second generation of video game consoles",
        "Seventh generation of video game consoles",
        "Sharp Nintendo Television",
        "Sixth generation of video game consoles",
        "Super Cassette Vision",
        "Super FX",
        "Super Famicom Naizou TV SF1",
        "Super Game Boy",
        "Super NES",
        "Super NES CD-ROM",
        "Super NES Classic Edition",
        "Super NES Mouse",
        "Super Nintendo Entertainment System",
        "Super Nintendo Entertainment System Game Pak",
        "Super Scope",
        "Teleplay Modem",
        "Terminator 2 (console)",
        "Third-party accessories for the Wii Remote",
        "Third generation of video game consoles",
        "Turbo File (ASCII)",
        "Turbo Touch 360",
        "Turbotronic",
        "Twin Famicom",
        "U-Force",
        "VTech Socrates",
        "Video game console",
        "Video game console emulator",
        "Virtual Boy",
        "Visteon Dockable Entertainment",
        "WaveBird Wireless Controller",
        "Wii",
        "Wii Balance Board",
        "Wii Mini",
        "Wii MotionPlus",
        "Wii Remote",
        "Wii Speak",
        "Wii U",
        "Wii U GamePad",
        "Wii U Pro Controller",
        "Wii Zapper",
        "XBAND"
    ]
}