{
    "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scoville_Square",
    "title": "Scoville Square",
    "summary": "The Masonic Temple Building (also known as the Scoville Block, Gilmore's Store, and Scoville Square Building) is a historic Prairie-style building in Oak Park, Illinois, at the corner of Oak Park Avenue and Lake Street.  It is in the Ridgeland-Oak Park Historic District and was individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.The building is one of only a few commercial buildings built in the Prairie School architectural style. The three-story building was built for C. B. Scoville to a design by E. E. Roberts and was constructed between 1906 and 1909. The first floor was designed for retail use, with iron and glass storefronts. A course of limestone separates the storefronts from the upper stories, which are faced with brick. A fourth story was added in 1914. Architectural details in the interior include an oak staircase and a lobby with leaded art-glass windows and marble wainscoting.Oak Park's Masonic lodges were among the building's first tenants. After the Masons vacated the premises, the building was sold to Gilmore's Department Store. The department store used the building from 1930 until it closed in the 1970s. After Gilmore's department store closed, the village of Oak Park bought the building to save it from demolition and contributed public money toward its restoration and renovation. Restoration work including removal of a black glass facade that Gilmore's had applied to the building.  The building is now known as the Scoville Square building and houses retail business on the ground floor and offices on its upper floors.",
    "content": "The Masonic Temple Building (also known as the Scoville Block, Gilmore's Store, and Scoville Square Building) is a historic Prairie-style building in Oak Park, Illinois, at the corner of Oak Park Avenue and Lake Street.  It is in the Ridgeland-Oak Park Historic District and was individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982.The building is one of only a few commercial buildings built in the Prairie School architectural style. The three-story building was built for C. B. Scoville to a design by E. E. Roberts and was constructed between 1906 and 1909. The first floor was designed for retail use, with iron and glass storefronts. A course of limestone separates the storefronts from the upper stories, which are faced with brick. A fourth story was added in 1914. Architectural details in the interior include an oak staircase and a lobby with leaded art-glass windows and marble wainscoting.Oak Park's Masonic lodges were among the building's first tenants. After the Masons vacated the premises, the building was sold to Gilmore's Department Store. The department store used the building from 1930 until it closed in the 1970s. After Gilmore's department store closed, the village of Oak Park bought the building to save it from demolition and contributed public money toward its restoration and renovation. Restoration work including removal of a black glass facade that Gilmore's had applied to the building.  The building is now known as the Scoville Square building and houses retail business on the ground floor and offices on its upper floors.\n\n\n== References ==\n\n\n== External links ==\n Media related to Scoville Square at Wikimedia Commons\n\nScoville Square, Oak Park, Designslinger.com",
    "links": [
        "American Legation, Tangier",
        "Art glass",
        "Arthur Heurtley House",
        "Birthplace of Ernest Hemingway",
        "Blue Line (CTA)",
        "Came glasswork",
        "Contributing property",
        "Department store",
        "Eben Ezra Roberts",
        "Edgar Rice Burroughs",
        "Ernest Hemingway",
        "Fenwick High School (Oak Park, Illinois)",
        "Frank Lloyd Wright Home and Studio",
        "Frank Lloyd Wright–Prairie School of Architecture Historic District",
        "Geographic coordinate system",
        "George W. Smith House (Oak Park, Illinois)",
        "Green Line (CTA)",
        "Gunderson Historic District",
        "Historic Preservation Fund",
        "Historic districts in the United States",
        "History of the National Register of Historic Places",
        "Horse Show Fountain",
        "Keeper of the Register",
        "List of U.S. National Historic Landmarks by state",
        "List of jails and prisons on the National Register of Historic Places",
        "List of people from Oak Park, Illinois",
        "Lobby (room)",
        "Masonic lodge",
        "Medical Arts Building (Oak Park, Illinois)",
        "National Historic Preservation Act of 1966",
        "National Park Service",
        "National Register of Historic Places",
        "National Register of Historic Places architectural style categories",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Alabama",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Alaska",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in American Samoa",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Arizona",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Arkansas",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in California",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Colorado",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Connecticut",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Delaware",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Florida",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Georgia",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Guam",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Hawaii",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Idaho",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Illinois",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Indiana",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Iowa",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Kansas",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Kentucky",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Louisiana",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Maine",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Maryland",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Massachusetts",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Michigan",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Minnesota",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Mississippi",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Missouri",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Montana",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Nebraska",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Nevada",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in New Hampshire",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in New Jersey",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in New Mexico",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in New York",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in North Carolina",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in North Dakota",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Ohio",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Oklahoma",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Oregon",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Palau",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Pennsylvania",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Puerto Rico",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Rhode Island",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in South Carolina",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in South Dakota",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Tennessee",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Texas",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Utah",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Vermont",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Virginia",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Washington, D.C.",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Washington state",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in West Virginia",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Wisconsin",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in Wyoming",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in the Federated States of Micronesia",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in the Marshall Islands",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in the Northern Mariana Islands",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in the United States Minor Outlying Islands",
        "National Register of Historic Places listings in the United States Virgin Islands",
        "National Register of Historic Places property types",
        "Oak Park, Illinois",
        "Oak Park Arms",
        "Oak Park Conservatory",
        "Oak Park Elementary School District",
        "Oak Park Festival Theatre",
        "Oak Park Journal",
        "Oak Park Township, Cook County, Illinois",
        "Oak Park and River Forest High School",
        "Oak Park station (Metra)",
        "Oscar B. Balch House",
        "Pace (transit)",
        "Pioneer Press",
        "Pleasant Home",
        "Ridgeland-Oak Park Historic District",
        "Robert P. Parker House",
        "Storefront",
        "Suburban Trust and Savings Bank Building",
        "Unity Temple",
        "University and college buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places",
        "WPNA",
        "Wainscoting",
        "Walter Gale House",
        "Wednesday Journal"
    ]
}