{
    "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sebastian_Bia%C5%82ecki",
    "title": "Sebastian Białecki",
    "summary": "Sebastian Białecki (born 6 December 2003) is a Polish professional darts player who plays in Professional Darts Corporation (PDC) events. He is a Denmark Open champion and two-time Polish Junior Darts Champion. His other big achievements to date was winning two PDC Pro Tour tournaments in 2021 and reached quarter-finals in 2022 UK Open.",
    "content": "Sebastian Białecki (born 6 December 2003) is a Polish professional darts player who plays in Professional Darts Corporation (PDC) events. He is a Denmark Open champion and two-time Polish Junior Darts Champion. His other big achievements to date was winning two PDC Pro Tour tournaments in 2021 and reached quarter-finals in 2022 UK Open. \n\n\n== Career ==\nBiałecki started playing darts in 2015, at the age of 12. The first big success of Białecki was winning the Polish Junior Championship twice in 2017 and 2018. In 2020, he took part in international tournaments for the first time. At the beginning of the year, he took part in the Q-School qualifying tournament for the PDC Pro Tour card, as well as taking part in PDC Development Tour tournaments in Hildesheim, Germany, where he reached the Last 32 three times, and reached the semi-finals once, losing the match for the final with Ryan Meikle. In September 2020, he took part in 2020 PDC World Youth Championship, advancing from group stage to the second round, where he again lost to Meikle, this time with 0–6.\nIn 2021, he took part in Q-School again, but was unsuccessful. Good results in the PDC Pro Tour tournaments organized in 2020 allowed Białecki to start in the 2021 UK Open. He was the first player in history to be born after the first edition of this tournament. In the first round of this edition, he faced Jim McEwan, achieved a nine-dart finish, and won the match 6–2. In the following matches of the tournament, he defeated Jitse Van der Wal (who also hit a nine-dart finish against him) and Derk Telnekes. He was eliminated in the fourth round, losing to Mensur Suljović 6–10.\nIn the next part of the season, he played in the PDC Pro Tour tournaments. On September 2021, he won his first international tournament PDC Challenge Tour in Niedernhausen, beating Kevin Doets 5–4 in the final. Two months later, in November 2021, he won the first PDC Development Tour tournament beating Geert Nentjes 5–4 in the final. In November, he also took part in the 2021 PDC World Youth Championship, unfortunately ending his participation in the group stage after losing all his matches.\nIn 2022, he had his third attempt at Q-School, but again not successfully. Good results throughout the previous season, paid off with an invitation to the 2022 UK Open. In this tournament, he achieved his best performance, beating successively in his duels Matt Campbell, Joe Murnan, Keegan Brown, Ritchie Edhouse, Ian White and Ryan Searle. He was eliminated from this tournament in the quarter-finals, losing to William O'Connor 9–10, despite having a match dart for a 150 checkout on double 15. After the tournament, he moved up to the 81st place in the Professional Darts Corporation ranking.\nIn April 2022, he took part in Denmark Open, which his first seniors WDF tournament and won it beating along the way some high-rank players like Ben Hazel, Andy Baetens, Dennis Nilsson, Shaun McDonald and in the final Darren Johnson 6–1. The triumph in this tournament guaranteed him a start in the 2023 WDF World Darts Championship. Next day, he took part in Denmark Masters, but lost in first match. In the same month, he took part in East European qualifying for the PDC European Tour tournaments and successfully qualified for three tournaments played in the next part of the season.In early May, he played moderately successful at the PDC Development Tour tournaments in Wigan. Only in one of the tournaments he advanced to the Last 8. In his debut on European Tour stage later that month at 2022 Czech Darts Open, he lost 4–6 to Martijn Kleermaker in first round. Similarly at the end of the month, he was eliminated in first round of the 2022 Dutch Darts Championship, where he lost 1–6 to Jelle Klaasen. On 4 June 2022, he won his second PDC Development Tour in Hildesheim, beating Keane Barry 5–3 in the final.In the middle of the month, he take part in the 2022 PDC World Cup of Darts representing Poland with Krzysztof Ratajski. In first match, Polish players had a problem to beat Danny Baggish and Jules van Dongen from the United States. The last ninth leg ended favorably for the Poles. Białecki scored 180 points, which allowed to set 40 points to the end. Danny Baggish had missed tops for a 160 finish and after that Krzysztof Ratajski end a leg and match with D20, threw a 13-darter leg for a 5–4 win and spot in the second round of this tournament. In the second round he faced Kim Huybrechts and lost that match 2–4 in legs. The loss of Krzysztof Ratajski with Dimitri van den Bergh in first single match meant that the Poles left the tournament after second round.\n\n\n== World Championship results ==\n\n\n=== WDF ===\n2023:\n\n\n== Performance timeline ==\n\n\n== Nine-dart finishes ==\n\n\n== References ==",
    "links": [
        "2020 PDC World Youth Championship",
        "2021 PDC World Youth Championship",
        "2021 UK Open",
        "2022 Czech Darts Open",
        "2022 Dutch Darts Championship",
        "2022 PDC World Cup of Darts",
        "2022 UK Open",
        "2023 WDF World Darts Championship",
        "Andy Baetens",
        "BDO World Darts Championship",
        "Ben Hazel",
        "Danny Baggish",
        "Darren Johnson (darts player)",
        "Darts",
        "Darts world rankings",
        "Denmark Masters (darts)",
        "Denmark Open (darts)",
        "Dennis Nilsson",
        "Derk Telnekes",
        "Dimitri van den Bergh",
        "Geert Nentjes",
        "Hildesheim",
        "Ian White (darts player)",
        "Jelle Klaasen",
        "Jim McEwan",
        "Jitse Van der Wal",
        "Joe Murnan",
        "Jules van Dongen",
        "Keane Barry",
        "Keegan Brown",
        "Kevin Doets",
        "Kim Huybrechts",
        "Krzysztof Ratajski",
        "Laterality",
        "Martijn Kleermaker",
        "Matt Campbell (darts player)",
        "Mensur Suljović",
        "Niedernhausen",
        "Nine-dart finish",
        "PDC European Tour",
        "PDC Pro Tour",
        "PDC World Cup of Darts",
        "PDC World Youth Championship",
        "Poland",
        "Professional Darts Corporation",
        "Ritchie Edhouse",
        "Ryan Meikle",
        "Ryan Searle (darts player)",
        "Scotland",
        "Shaun McDonald (darts player)",
        "Split in darts",
        "Stan Bush",
        "UK Open",
        "United States",
        "Wigan",
        "William O'Connor (darts player)",
        "World Darts Federation",
        "Łódź"
    ]
}