{
    "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanwell_Power_Station",
    "title": "Stanwell Power Station",
    "summary": "Stanwell Power Station is a coal-fired power generation station located in Stanwell, 23 kilometres (14 mi) south-west of Rockhampton, Queensland, Australia. At the time of construction, it was one of the largest industrial developments undertaken in Queensland. With a capacity to generate 1,445 megawatts (MW), Stanwell Power Station supplies electricity for distribution to customers via the state's high voltage electricity grid.Stanwell was commissioned in 1992 and became fully operational in 1996. It is located on 4,000 acres (1,600 hectares) of land. Construction of the station took seven years, with infrastructure built to withstand cyclonic winds.",
    "content": "Stanwell Power Station is a coal-fired power generation station located in Stanwell, 23 kilometres (14 mi) south-west of Rockhampton, Queensland, Australia. At the time of construction, it was one of the largest industrial developments undertaken in Queensland. With a capacity to generate 1,445 megawatts (MW), Stanwell Power Station supplies electricity for distribution to customers via the state's high voltage electricity grid.Stanwell was commissioned in 1992 and became fully operational in 1996. It is located on 4,000 acres (1,600 hectares) of land. Construction of the station took seven years, with infrastructure built to withstand cyclonic winds.\n\n\n== Fuel ==\nCoal is transport via rail from several Central Queensland coal mines.  About 4 million tons of coal are used each year.\n\n\n== Design ==\nThere are four generating units at Stanwell Power Station. The four units and their components are housed in a 20 storey boiler house and a turbine hall the length of three football fields. The power station is highly automated and achieves both an efficient, effective workplace and high asset performance through the application of innovative technology and organisational design. These innovations have been recognised both nationally and internationally. Stanwell Power Station previously held the world record at 1,073 days of continuous operation on Unit 4. This was surpassed in 2021 by Canadian public entity Ontario Power Generation's Darlington Nuclear Generating Station Unit 1, which ran for 1,106 days continuous.The station features a 210-metre-high-chimney stack which was constructed using approximately 750,000 bricks. The station has two cooling towers, each stands 130 metres high (about the height of a 40-storey building) and is 100 metres in diameter. Fifteen thousand cubic metres of concrete was poured for each tower. The plume seen coming from the cooling towers is steam, lost through evaporation during the water-cooling process.\n\n\n== See also ==\n\nList of active power stations in Queensland\n\n\n== References ==\n\n\n== External links ==",
    "links": [
        "AGL Energy",
        "Archer Point Wind Farm",
        "Australia",
        "Australian Energy Market Commission",
        "Australian Energy Market Operator",
        "Australian Energy Regulator",
        "Barcaldine Power Station",
        "Barcaldine Solar Farm",
        "Barron Gorge Hydroelectric Power Station",
        "Braemar Power Station",
        "Brisbane Powerhouse",
        "Bulimba Power Station",
        "CS Energy",
        "Callide A Power Station",
        "Callide Power Station",
        "Clare Solar Farm",
        "Click Energy",
        "Cloncurry Solar Farm",
        "Coal",
        "Collinsville Power Station",
        "Condamine Power Station",
        "Cooling tower",
        "Coopers Gap Wind Farm",
        "Crows Nest Wind Farm",
        "Darling Downs Power Station",
        "Darling Downs Solar Farm",
        "Daydream Solar Farm",
        "Department of Energy and Water Supply (Queensland)",
        "Diamantina Power Station",
        "Emerald Solar Park",
        "Energex",
        "Energy in Queensland",
        "Envestra",
        "Ergon Energy",
        "Geographic coordinate system",
        "Gladstone Power Station",
        "Hamilton Solar Farm",
        "History of electricity supply in Queensland",
        "Hughenden Solar Farm",
        "Kareeya Hydro Power Station",
        "Kennedy Energy Park",
        "Kidston Solar Project",
        "Kogan Creek Power Station",
        "Koombooloomba Hydro Power Station",
        "Lakeland Solar Project",
        "Leichhardt Power Station",
        "List of active power stations in Queensland",
        "List of power stations in Queensland",
        "List of wind farms in Queensland",
        "Longreach Solar Farm",
        "Lumo Energy",
        "Mackay Gas Turbine",
        "Megawatt",
        "Megawatts",
        "Mica Creek Power Station",
        "Millmerran Power Station",
        "Mount Emerald Wind Farm",
        "Mount Stuart Power Station",
        "NEMMCO",
        "Nameplate capacity",
        "Oakey Power Station",
        "Ontario Power Generation",
        "Origin Energy",
        "Phosphate Hill Power Station",
        "Powerlink Queensland",
        "Project commissioning",
        "QGC",
        "Queensland",
        "Queensland Competition Authority",
        "ReAmped Energy",
        "Rockhampton, Queensland",
        "Rockhampton Region",
        "Roma Power Station",
        "Senex Energy",
        "Shell Energy Australia",
        "Somerset Dam Power Station",
        "Stanwell, Queensland",
        "Stanwell Corporation",
        "Sun Metals Solar Farm",
        "Sunshine Coast Solar Farm",
        "Swanbank A Power Station",
        "Swanbank B Power Station",
        "Swanbank Power Station",
        "Tarong Energy",
        "Tarong North Power Station",
        "Tarong Power Station",
        "Tennyson Power Station",
        "Thursday Island Wind Farm",
        "Tinaroo Hydro Power Station",
        "Townsville Power Station",
        "University of Queensland",
        "VisSim",
        "Wayback Machine",
        "Whitsunday Solar Farm",
        "Windorah Solar Farm",
        "Windy Hill Wind Farm",
        "Wivenhoe Power Station",
        "Wivenhoe Small Hydro"
    ]
}