{"url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wesley_Church,_Albany", "title": "Wesley Church, Albany", "summary": "Wesley Church is a Uniting Church located on Duke Street overlooking Princess Royal Harbour in Albany in the Great Southern region of Western Australia. \nInitially known as the Wesley Methodist Church it was built in a late Victorian style in 1890 at a cost of £2,695. The church has walls of brick and local granite with elaborate brick window surrounds. It also features gothic elements such as pointed arched entrances, a tall spire and pointed arched windows. The manse was built on the eastern side of the church in 1903 at a cost of £1,250 in a matching architectural style. Both buildings were funded by the Robinson family who held large commercial, land and legal interests in both Albany and Perth.The complex, consisting of the church, hall and manse are heritage listed. The hall was built first in 1863 and then replaced in 1891, now known as Albert Hall. The church was opened the same year after replacing an earlier building, parts of which were incorporated into the hall.The church is set close to the road with a symmetrical facade, a tower and spire. It has a steeply pitched roof, parapeted gable and wall buttresses. The stone masonry is finished with brick trim.\nThe hall sits next to the church also has a symmetrical facade and a steeply pitched roof that includes a row of vents. It has a central arched doorway and five centred flat-topped windows above the door.\nThe manse has a symmetrical façade, stone construction with painted brick quoining around windows and doors. There is a central portico with arched entrance, a verandah with decorative timber posts and frieze. The main roof is hipped and topped with four distinctive chimneys.In 1977 the Methodist Church and the Presbyterian Church of Australia merged to form the Uniting Church of Australia.", "content": "Wesley Church is a Uniting Church located on Duke Street overlooking Princess Royal Harbour in Albany in the Great Southern region of Western Australia. \nInitially known as the Wesley Methodist Church it was built in a late Victorian style in 1890 at a cost of £2,695. The church has walls of brick and local granite with elaborate brick window surrounds. It also features gothic elements such as pointed arched entrances, a tall spire and pointed arched windows. The manse was built on the eastern side of the church in 1903 at a cost of £1,250 in a matching architectural style. Both buildings were funded by the Robinson family who held large commercial, land and legal interests in both Albany and Perth.The complex, consisting of the church, hall and manse are heritage listed. The hall was built first in 1863 and then replaced in 1891, now known as Albert Hall. The church was opened the same year after replacing an earlier building, parts of which were incorporated into the hall.The church is set close to the road with a symmetrical facade, a tower and spire. It has a steeply pitched roof, parapeted gable and wall buttresses. The stone masonry is finished with brick trim.\nThe hall sits next to the church also has a symmetrical facade and a steeply pitched roof that includes a row of vents. It has a central arched doorway and five centred flat-topped windows above the door.\nThe manse has a symmetrical façade, stone construction with painted brick quoining around windows and doors. There is a central portico with arched entrance, a verandah with decorative timber posts and frieze. The main roof is hipped and topped with four distinctive chimneys.In 1977 the Methodist Church and the Presbyterian Church of Australia merged to form the Uniting Church of Australia.\n\n\n== See also ==\nList of places on the State Register of Heritage Places in the City of Albany\n\n\n== References ==", "links": ["Albany, Western Australia", "Australian Capital Territory", "Blayney Uniting Church", "Brougham Place Uniting Church", "Chatswood South Uniting Church", "Church of All Nations (Melbourne)", "Clayton Congregational Church", "Ebenezer Church (Australia)", "Geographic coordinate system", "Graceville Uniting Church", "Great Southern (Western Australia)", "Haileybury Chapel, Melbourne", "Hemmant Christian Community Church", "Herberton Uniting Church", "Heritage Council of Western Australia", "Ipswich Central Mission", "List of places on the State Register of Heritage Places in the City of Albany", "Manse", "New South Wales", "Newtown Mission Uniting Church", "Perth, Western Australia", "Pilgrim Uniting Church", "Pitt Street Uniting Church", "Port Adelaide Uniting Church", "Princess Royal Harbour", "Purga United Church", "Queensland", "Rosewater Uniting Church", "Ross Memorial Church", "Scots Church, Adelaide", "Scots Uniting Church", "Sinnamon Memorial Uniting Church", "South Australia", "St. Margaret's Uniting Church, Hackett", "St Andrew's Uniting Church, Brisbane", "St Andrew's Uniting Church, Deniliquin", "St Andrews Uniting Church, Bundaberg", "St David's Uniting Church", "St John's Uniting Church, Neutral Bay", "St John's Uniting Church, Wahroonga", "St Lucia Presbyterian Church", "St Michael's Uniting Church, Melbourne", "St Pauls Uniting Church, Mackay", "St Stephen's Uniting Church", "State Register of Heritage Places", "Surface Hill Uniting Church", "Trinity Church, Perth", "Trinity Uniting Church, Strathfield", "Tryon Road Uniting Church", "Uniting Church", "Uniting Church Central Memorial Hall", "Uniting Church and Kindergarten Hall, Orange", "Uniting Church in Australia", "Uniting Church of Australia", "Victoria (Australia)", "Victorian architecture", "Warwick Uniting Church", "Wesley Church, Melbourne", "Wesley Church, Perth", "Wesley Uniting Church, Broken Hill", "Wesley Uniting Church, Toowoomba", "Western Australia", "Windsor Uniting Church and Hall"]}